THE GLASS
First of all, we’re going to start this tasting with the selection of the glass.
Because it is important to chose wisely.
There are roughly as many glasses as there are wines.
You have the white wine glass, red wine glass, rosé glass,
Burgundy’s glass, Champagne’s glass, Cognac’s glass, Whisky’s glass…
Wait a minute ! The most important, for a good start, is to have a wineglass.
You need to take it by the foot, for wine’s respect, and for the technical aspect,
it enables to keep it at a good temperature and preserves its optimal taste.
THE VISUAL ASPECT
For the first step of tasting, we are going to talk about the look (the “robe”)
because it is important. Indeed, the physical aspect is what really matters.
First, you will check the wine’s legs and its tears.
Then you will look at the wine’s underwear ! ;)
This so-called “robe”, it is just the wine’s color.
For now, being able to tell if the wine is white, rosé, red, light or dark, gives already good indications.
THE OLFACTORY SENSES: Le “nez”
Now we are going to talk about the “first nose” then about the “second nose”.
It is important to detect olfactory sensations like phenol,
grass or cherry’s aroma, vanilla smell, undergrowth and many other things like this.
Hum, too many big words!
“First nose”, “second nose”, the idea is just to smell the wine.
The“first nose”is when you smell it for the first time into the glass.
The “second nose” is once you have stirred your wine to enhance the olfactory sensations.
For that, if you want to spare your shirt (mine in particular ! ^^),
avoid large movements and stir it softly like this.
Now, you can smell it.
If it smells like wine, it is a good start ;).
Then, the little trick is to use deduction.
If you don’t smell toasted notes, maybe you can smell fruits or spices…
Up to your imagination!
THE BOUQUET
It is finally time to discover the “bouquet”.
So I am going to taste it.
We can taste oily flavors. It is a nice bouquet.
I think it will age really good after 3 or 4 years in your cellar.
The “bouquet”, the “bouquet”, fancy words again !
There you go : I have mine as well !
The wine’s bouquet, it is just the wine’s flavor.
Smart trick : take a small mouthful to get your taste buds used to the beverage.
Now, it is THE tasting’s mouthful!
Classy, woman’s version ;)
Now, the most important is to know if you like it, if it caused good (or bad) sensations.
If you winced, it is a bad sign lol.
For me, I like this one!
THE LAST WORD
In fact, wine tasting is a little bit like bluff.
The trick of the day : some useful sentences to deceive.
You could say for example : this wine is smart and elegant;
the aromas reflect the olfactory sensations;
or better said : this wine reminds me of “the terroir”.
To conclude: tasting is good, enjoying is better.